tests/README.md, before:

# Testing val3dity

This README is solely concerned with the integration tests for val3dity. These tests are implemented in python, with the `pytest` library. The tests call val3dity using the `subprocess` library and feed it with various files. Every file materializes a specific error case, or one of its boundary conditions. Thus validating a test file should result in a single error, unless there is good reason to do otherwise.

Due to the current setup of file referencing in the tests, `pytest` need to be run from the `/val3dity` root directory.

Run basic set of tests:
```
$ pytest
```

Run full set of tests:
```
$ pytest --runfull
```

Run in verbose mode to see which tests are executed or skipped:
```
$ pytest -v
```

Run a single test case, eg *test_101*:
```
$ pytest -k "test_101"
```

Run a single test case, eg *test_104* with only one of its inputs:
```
$ pytest -k "test_104[104_2.poly]"
```


For more info see [pytest docs on markers](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/example/markers.html#marking-test-functions-and-selecting-them-for-a-run).

The tests are organised in the hierarchy:

+ test case
    + test

In these integration tests a **test case** is a collection of *tests* that test a conceptually related set of errors. For example the geometry errors of 3D primitives that are relevant for each accepted file format. Each test case has its own module, named as `test_<test case>.py` (eg `test_geometry_generic.py`). Every test case has a description in form of a docstring that briefly clarifies its goal.

Every **test** tests a particular error, bug. For example the error *101_TOO_FEW_POINTS* has its own test `test_101`. Technically, every test case consists of:

+ A collection of test function named as `test_<test>()`, eg `test_101()`.
+ A collection of data files that are used by the *tests* of the test case. Each file is named as `<test case>_<boundary condition>.<format>`, and stored at `data/test_<test case>/`, `data/test_geometry_generic/101.poly`.

A good way to think about the organisation is that within a test case, every **test** is expected to return the same error. In other words, a test case checks that a certain path in the software reliably returns the same output for different inputs. In *val3dity* the different inputs are most often boundary conditions of the geometric primitives with certain errors (eg 101).
Ideally every test has its own data file, where the data file contains *only* the error that the test is testing. The data files are stored separately from the test modules.

Most spatial data, or geometry data needs some metadata, because they are too complex to be self-explanatory. Therefore every test data file *needs* a description in `test_metadata.yml`. Note that this is enforced by `test_metadata.py` when running the *full test set*. 

In `test_metadata.yml` the quoting of the nodes is important, particularly if there are no letters in the filename:

```yaml
# test case
test_geometry_generic:
  # test file: description
  "101": cube top face a line (with only 2 vertices)
  "101_1": cube with top face having only 2 points
```

The test hierarchy yields the following file structure:

```
data/
|–– test_geometry_generic/
    |–– 101.poly
    |–– 101_1.poly
    |–– 101_<boundary condition>.poly
    |–– <test case>.poly
    |–– <test case>_<boundary condition>.poly
|–– test_geometry_specific/
|–– test_file_format/
|–– test_empty_files/
|–– test_valid/
|–– test_<test case>/
|-- test_metadata.yml
|–– ...
...
tests/
|-- conftest.py
|–– test_geometry_generic.py
|–– test_geometry_specific.py
|–– test_file_format.py
|–– test_empty_files.py
|–– test_valid.py
|–– test_user_input.py
|–– test_<test case>.py
|–– ...
```

*The main purpose of structuring the tests in the described way is to provide clarity for the developers and help with systematic testing. Certainly there are other possible approaches.*

## A few details

Test configuration parameters are in `conftest.py`.

To mark a test as part of the *full* superset, mark it as `full`. In this case the test is only run when the `--runfull` command line argument is passed to pytest. For example:

```python
@pytest.mark.full
def test_102():
    assert 0
```

If you add a new marker, make sure you register it in `pytest.ini`.

Commit message:

Clean test files
- mark tests that are only included when --runfull
- review test README
- review test docstrings

tests/README.md, after:

# Testing val3dity

This README is solely concerned with the integration tests for val3dity. These tests are implemented in python, with the `pytest` library. The tests call val3dity using the `subprocess` library and feed it with various files. Every file materializes a specific error case, or one of its boundary conditions. Thus validating a test file should result in a single error, unless there is good reason to do otherwise.

Due to the current setup of file referencing in the tests, `pytest` need to be run from the `/val3dity` root directory, thus `somepath/val3dity $ pytest`

Run basic set of tests:
```
$ pytest
```

Run full set of tests:
```
$ pytest --runfull
```

Run in verbose mode to see which tests are executed or skipped:
```
$ pytest -v
```

Run a single test case, eg *test_101*:
```
$ pytest -k "test_101"
```

Run a single test case, eg *test_104* with only one of its inputs:
```
$ pytest -k "test_104[104_2.poly]"
```

Run test on the test metadata:
```
$ pytest --runfull -k "metadata"
```


For more info see [pytest docs on markers](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/example/markers.html#marking-test-functions-and-selecting-them-for-a-run).

The tests are organised in the hierarchy:

+ test case
    + test

In these integration tests a **test case** is a collection of *tests* that test a conceptually related set of errors. For example the geometry errors of 3D primitives that are relevant for each accepted file format. Each test case has its own module, named as `test_<test case>.py` (eg `test_geometry_generic.py`). Every test case has a description in form of a docstring that briefly clarifies its goal.

Every **test** tests a particular error, bug. For example the error *101_TOO_FEW_POINTS* has its own test `test_101`. Technically, every test case consists of:

+ A collection of test functions named as `test_<test>()`, eg `test_101()`.
+ A collection of data files that are used by the *tests* of the test case. Each file is named as `<test case>_<boundary condition>.<format>`, and stored at `data/test_<test case>/`, `data/test_geometry_generic/101.poly`.

A good way to think about the organisation is that within a test case, every **test** is expected to return the same error. In other words, a test case checks that a certain path in the software reliably returns the same output for different inputs. In *val3dity* the different inputs are most often boundary conditions of the geometric primitives with certain errors (eg 101). The data files are stored separately from the test modules.

Most spatial data, or geometry data needs some metadata, because they are too complex to be self-explanatory. Therefore every test data file *needs* a description in `test_metadata.yml`. Note that this is enforced by `test_metadata.py` when running the *full test set*. 

In `test_metadata.yml` the quoting of the nodes is important, particularly if there are no letters in the filename:

```yaml
test_geometry_generic:                                  # test case
  "101": cube top face a line (with only 2 vertices)    # test file: description
  "101_1": cube with top face having only 2 points
```

The test hierarchy yields the following file structure:

```
data/
|–– test_geometry_generic/
    |–– 101.poly
    |–– 101_1.poly
    |–– 101_<boundary condition>.poly
    |–– <test case>.poly
    |–– <test case>_<boundary condition>.poly
|–– test_geometry_specific/
|–– test_file_format/
|–– test_empty_files/
|–– test_valid/
|–– test_<test case>/
|-- test_metadata.yml
|–– ...
...
tests/
|-- conftest.py
|–– test_geometry_generic.py
|–– test_geometry_specific.py
|–– test_file_format.py
|–– test_empty_files.py
|–– test_valid.py
|–– test_user_input.py
|–– test_<test case>.py
|–– ...
```

*The main purpose of structuring the tests in the described way is to provide clarity for the developers and help with systematic testing. Certainly there are other possible approaches.*

## A few details

Test configuration parameters are in `conftest.py`.

To mark a test as part of the *full* superset, mark it as `full`. In this case the test is only run when the `--runfull` command line argument is passed to pytest. For example:

```python
@pytest.mark.full
def test_102():
    assert 0
```

If you add a new marker, make sure to register it in `pytest.ini`.
